1.(a) By increasing the number of symbols able to be sent per baud, and by increasing the baud rate.

1.(b) 33.6Kbps is fairly close to the Shannon Limit of the phone lines being used to transmit the data, and so no further major improvements were possible.

1.(c) 56Kbps was achieved by using digital networks at the telephone companies.
Digital networks have a much higher signal-to-noise ratio than analog networks, and so the theoretical Shannon Limit was much higher.
Note that the lines from user's homes to the telephone company were still analog, and were converted to digital at the telephone company, meaning 56Kbps was only achieved downstream.

1.(d) DSLs used the same infrastructure as telephone lines, but did not pass through the telephone exchange.
This meant that the lines were not subject to the same bandwidth constraints as a regular voice call, and were allowed to use the higher frequencies, greatly increasing their theoretical Shannon Limit.

2.(a) 8 RTTs, two to get index.html, and six more to get small.gif, big.gif and huge.gif in sequence.

2.(b) 6 RTTs, two for index.html, two to get small.gif and huge.gif (in parallel) from a.b.com, sent in parallel, and finally two more to get big.gif from x.y.com.

2.(c) 6 RTTs, one to establish the connection to a.b.com, then three more (in sequence) to get index.html, small.gif, and huge.gif from a.b.com, followed by two RTTs to get big.gif from x.y.com.

2.(d) 4 RTTs, one to establish the connection to a.b.com, then one to retrieve index.html, small.gif, and huge.gif from a.b.com (pipelined), followed by two RTTs to connect to and retrieve big.gif from x.y.com.

3.(a) Shaw Communications

3.(b) Latency: 15ms
Upload: 71Mbps
Download: 7Mbps
(Note: this is using an $8 USB WiFi card, so wired speeds are likely higher.)

3.(c)
Pros: Global coverage, fewer hops to reach a major data centre, more consistent service
Cons: Service interruptions from poor weather, bandwidth shared throughout locations could cause slower speeds in populated areas

4. I hope so!
